here's what Facebook and Google aren't
telling you about your ads marketing has
turned into Omni Channel approach in
which you drive traffic and sales
through multiple channels not just one
and in marketing they talk about this
thing called the rule of seven which
reinforces Omni Channel what the rule of
seven is about is when someone hears or
sees or interacts with your brand seven
times they're more likely to convert a
customer evangelize your brand love it
tells people about it and that's why you
want to take an omni Town approach
because it's hard to get in touch with
one person through the same channel over
and over again
but there's an issue when you start
leveraging multiple channels which one
is responsible for the conversions is it
Google is it Facebook is it Instagram
Twitter email how do you know which
channel is producing you the most Roi
well there's an issue which how each of
these platforms from Google to Facebook
report on conversions let's say someone
comes to your website from an organic
LinkedIn post then they subscribe to
your newsletter you then send them a few
emails they click on some of them come
back to your website at this point they
still haven't bought from you and then
they do a search on Google they click on
your paid ad that's at the top of Google
they go through they check out your
website maybe even add some proxa
landing page or read your services page
but they still don't convert you then
see them coming back to your website
because they clicked on one of your
tweets or bio in on Twitter and now they
come back to your website and they
complete their purchase
do you think Google shows that they
cause that conversion from let's call it
Twitter or do you think it shows that
they were responsible for that
conversion and it came from their app
of course they showed that it comes from
their app Facebook and pretty much all
paid platforms do the same if someone
clicks on one of these paid ads and they
don't convert right away but then they
come back through some other channel
even if they found your website before
you did that paid advertising they'll
tell you that they were responsible for
that conversion there's nothing wrong
with this but you ideally need to
attribute your conversion to multiple
channels to figure out what's accurately
driving you revenue and what isn't and
before I get into how you can do that in
Google analytics let me break down the
common attribution models that you can
use there's last click this is
historically the default that just gives
all the credit to the last click before
someone converted then you have time
Decay this gives credit based on the
time between the interactions then you
have linear this gives Equal Credit
across each step of the conversion pad
and then there's position base this
typically gives credit to specific steps
in the conversion path usually the first
and the last one then you have first
click all the credit from the first
interaction typically used to drive
awareness to your website and then you
have data driven this uses historical
data to determine the attribution credit
this model will shift depending on the
unique path there isn't one right or
even wrong approach to use I typically
use position base myself which typically
gives credit to the first touch and the
last Touch first touch being how someone
first found your website and last touch
being on what is the last entry source
that they came through before they
converted sometimes people come to your
website the first time and they convert
right away and sometimes they don't but
that's why I love using this model
because it gives me hey what are the
main two drivers of the conversion now
here's how you adjust your attribution
in Google Analytics
first click on admin
then I want you to click on attribution
settings
then click on the model you want to
choose and if you want you can choose
position base like me or any other
option now you'll get a better idea of
what is driving your Revenue now if you
need help with your analytics and more
importantly on how to make better
informed decisions from your analytics
so you can grow your marketing faster
and get a better Roi check out my Ad
Agency NP digital where we have a whole
data science team that just helps
companies with this if you enjoy the
video like it share it tell people about
it and make sure you subscribe if you
have any questions leave a comment below
I'm here to help you out